>> Erik Reinert: Now, that we've
figured out how the application runs,
we've confirmed that it runs locally,
we're ready to actually start putting
the application in the cloud.
We've covered all of our bases.
I know that if I run into any bugs or
any problems or anything like that,
I should be good to go.
Now what I want to do is
actually start working on.
Cool, let's get our
deployment out the door.
Let's take the code as it is.
I should expect that this code in this
state should now just run in the cloud.
So the first thing we're going to
want to do is we're going to actually
go to Amazon.
So I'm going to go to Amazon and
then I am going to go to the console.
So everybody go to the main
console here at the front, and
then I'm going to,
up in the top bar, type in ecr.
Has anyone here ever
worked with ECR before?
Does anyone know what it is?
So ECR is
Amazon's Elastic Container Registry.
We said that we want to get this up and
running as minimally as humanly possible,
but we want to use containers.
That means that we have to have our
image stored somewhere in the cloud.
We have to put that image somewhere so
that the thing that's running our
service is able to access it.
That's all we really care about.
But that's the requirement.
And what I like to do when
I'm building things or
trying to think about how to solve things,
I look at my most closest problem and
then go, okay,
let me just solve this problem and
then I'll solve the next one,
and then I'll solve the next one.
I don't really take huge problems
on with tons of questions at once.
I like to look at it very simply.
So if we were to go, I want to get my
container running up in the cloud,
the first thing we need to do
is put that image somewhere.
Amazon has a service called
Elastic Container Registry and
I can create a repository
to put all of my images in.
And you can see here that I
already have one for the preview.
This is basically what we're trying to do.
I'm going to click Create Repository
up in the top right hand corner.
Then, I'm going to type in fem md service.
You'll notice that on
the left here there's a URL.
The only thing I want you to take away
from this is this value right here.
This value is your account id.
Amazon separates all of its
resources based off of account ID.
And more often than not, you'll see
your account ID and permissions or
URLs or whatever.
So just take note of this URL and
just copy it.
Just put it off to the side, put it in
your editor, do whatever you want, but
just take note of that URL, because
we're going to want that in the future.
We're not going to change anything else.
We're not going to worry about
immutability or mutability or whatever.
We're just going to type in FEMFD service
and then we're going to click Create.
What you could do is,
once you see that it's been created,
you can see I have it right here.
You can actually click on it and then do
something like click View, push commands.
Then you'll see in here that
Amazon actually provides
us a nice little UI to kind of
show you how to get started.
The two most important things I want
you to kind of note are the git
login password, and
then the tagging down here.
So if you've ever used Docker before,
you've probably had to authenticate with
like a registry at some
point to push up an image.
And this is how you authenticate
with Amazon's registry.
So what I want you to do really quickly
is I want you to copy this URL or
copy this first line.
So just click Code copied right there.
Then I want in your terminal to
stop running the program, close out
any other windows if you need, and
then paste in that command just like that.
Then hit Enter.
It should take a second, but
then it should say login
succeeded once you've logged in.
We now know that we can
basically push images.
So if I wanted to, I could be like,
docker image, push, whatever,
we're authenticated.
So the next thing we need to do is
we need to create a docker file.
Like, we don't anything to actually build,
right?
Like, if we look here, there's no.
There's a Docker compose.
That's great that we got that, but
we didn't get a Docker file, right?
So we actually need to create one now.
So I'm going to create a new file, right?
I'm just going to say touch Docker file
in the directory in the main directory,
and then I'm just going to open up
that file and I'm going to copy and
paste over for
you guys exactly what we want.
Now, if you've ever started with
Docker before, this is a very simple,
simple Docker file.
This is one of the most common
Docker files approaches,
which is very Simply at the top,
we tell it which image we want to use.
And nine times out of 10,
when you're getting started,
you're using just a language image.
You'll notice here I'm using golang.
We set up a working directory.
So in this case, I'm telling Docker, hey,
inside of the container, when you build,
I want you to change to the app directory,
which more than likely is empty.
That's where I want to do all of my work.
Then I'm going to copy my go mod and
my go sum into that directory.
That means that when this copy happens,
it will be AppGo mod and app Go sum.
Now, really quickly,
can anyone tell me why I'm just
copying those two files to start?
Does anyone know why am I copying
just the go mod and the go.
Sum.
>> Speaker 2: To initialize,
I guess, the project,
the code and everything, download
the dependencies that it may have.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
So Docker has caching built into it,
which is nice.
So if you have something
that's really labor-intensive,
like downloading a ton of dependencies or
things like that,
you can tell Docker to just do that
part first so that in the future.
If another file changes, it doesn't have
to run that command over and over and
over again.
If you've ever used Node Modules or
NPM install inside of a container,
it's pretty much the same effect where
you take a package JSON, a package lock,
you do the NPM install and then you
copy all of your source code again.
That's exactly what we're doing here.
We're copying in the main stuff and
then we do a go mod download.
This will make sure that it downloads all
the dependencies for the application.
But then, here is where we will break
cache if we make any changes, right?
So as long as I don't change the go mod or
the go sum every time I rebuild this
image, it will only start from here,
which will save time in development.
I don't have to worry about doing like,
it's just saving time, really.
That's the easiest way to put it.
It just saves time.
So then after we do our go mod download,
we copy.
So we do dot, dot, right?
This is a very simple copy
everything in my current directory
to everything in the directory I'm
inside of the Docker container.
So that case, this means that I
am copying everything into app.
And it also does mean that I'm
recopying go mod and go some.
If you're like,
does that mean that that's happening?
Yes, it totally does.
But it doesn't matter at this point.
We've already copied it once.
We've already cached what
we wanted to cache, so
it doesn't really matter
if it gets moved again.
It's not that big of a deal.
We know our build command, so
our build command should be go build O.
In this case, I'm just calling it main.
So I'm just saying go build main.
Go or main, and
then I'm doing dot at the end to tell it
to build in the current directory as well.
Then the last two things
are Docker specific.
We tell it the port we
want it to expose on,
and then we tell it the application
that we want it to actually run.
So that's it, pretty straightforward,
very simple Docker file,
nothing too crazy about it.
The next thing I want to
do is I want to follow
the commands actually inside
of the push commands.
So if I go back in here,
you'll notice that there's
a build command, Docker build T.
So I can just copy this,
paste this in, and then hit Enter.
And if this works for you,
then you should start seeing Docker
basically do the exact same thing.
>> Speaker 2: That Dockerfile, like the
syntax or whatever you want to call that.
Is that Docker specific,
like the copy run?
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah,
those are all Docker specific syntax.
And the Docker file is
unique to Docker itself.
There are technically, I think Podman has
its own POD file or something like that.
But no, that's the basic Docker.
Yeah, dope, okay, so cool.
We built our image.
Awesome.
Now, I'm gonna make one small change here.
For those of you who are on ARM PCs or
ARM intel, or on ARM, sorry,
processors, you'll notice that
before we ran this command, right?
Cool, that's awesome.
But if you're on one of the new
MacBook Pros, this will not work for you.
And you might be like, why?
Well, because you just built an image for
ARM64, which means that if I want
to deploy this image,
I need to Deploy to an ARM64 processor.
There's a way of getting around this,
and I'm going to show it to you,
which is I can tell Docker
with the Build X command.
So not build, but Build X what
platform I want to actually build for.
So what I want you to do is,
even though we ran this build command,
I want you to then run this
build command underneath it.
So Docker build X build platform,
Linux amd64 tag fem fd service latest so
just run that command directly.
>> Speaker 2: All of us are just.
>> Erik Reinert: All of us, yeah, yeah.
Everybody, Yeah.
I mean, if it works, you may not.
It may not work for you, but
if it does, then yeah.
So I'm going to hit Enter, and
you'll notice that it actually does
everything again from scratch.
That's because this time it's actually
pulling the AMD 64 version of the image,
running the build and
making sure that everything works.
On AMD 64, we did technically
just do a multi platform build.
We first built it on ARM,
if you're on an ARM PC.
And then we reran it with AMD 64 to
make sure that it gets built properly.
And there you go.
>> Speaker 2: What's the colon
latest there at the end?
That's the main difference I'm seeing
between the one copied from AWS and
the one that you have.
>> Erik Reinert: Yeah.
So Docker images have what
are called tags, and those are like.
So the first part here is
the name of the image, but
then this is the actual version
of the image that I want, right?
So latest is kind of like a convention
in Docker that simply says I want to get
the absolute latest
image that's available.
So they just use the latest tag.
However, I am like slightly.
Well, I'm autistic and I'm very
deliberate with everything I do, so
I like to be explicit.
So I always put it in regardless.
But you don't actually have to that If
you want, you can just remove latest and
you'd be fine.
But I have really weird quirks and
that's one of them.
I would rather see it than not,
but if you remove it,
it'll still be tagged as latest.
Yeah, we generated credentials,
we ran our postgres locally,
we made sure that the application works
locally, so we know the app works.
We made a Docker file for it and
then we built that dockerfile to make
sure that that is all good as well.
So the last thing we really need
to do is simply tag and push it.
So what I'm going to do
is in the commands here,
you'll notice that we have a third
line that says Docker tag, fem, fd,
service, latest, blah,
blah, blah, blah, blah.
So I'm going to copy that third line and
then I'm just going to paste that in.
So I'm just taking exactly what is
in the document and then enter.
If I do that,
what I've effectively just done is.
And it's hard to see because my text is so
big.
Let me reset the font size here.
There you go.
You'll see that I have Two tags.
Now I have one with my normal
FEM FD service tag on latest, and
then I have another one
with a much longer.
Remember that URL I told
you about before from ecr?
Well, it tacked on that
URL in front of it and
it made that the name of the image,
latest.
So basically, we're setting this
up to be pushed to Amazon ECR.
And so the last thing we can do is we
can copy that last command, docker,
push, paste that and then hit Enter.
And if your credentials are set up and
everything's good to go,
you should start seeing your
image get pushed to Amazon cloud.
I like how somebody in chat's
talking about the image size.
Don't worry, we'll get to that.
It is a chunky container.
So if everything works, everything is
good, then you can close this window out,
you can click on your image in ECR and
sure enough, we should see our
latest image tag right there.
You just took your very first
step to working on a deployment,
which is, as we said in the beginning
of this phase, I just want to get my
app running right and I want to be
able to connect it to a database.
Well, we just did the first
part of the running,
which is our image work or
our application works.
We know how to configure it,
we can build it, and
now we've put it up in the cloud so
that other things can use it.